Add collaborative editing (#550)
directus/docs: content/guides/02.content/9.collaborative-editing/1.configuration.md

---
title: Configuration

> description: Learn how to configure the Collaborative Editing feature in your Directus project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to configure Collaborative Editing in your Directus project.
```

---

This guide covers the configuration settings for the Collaborative Editing feature.

## Configuration

::callout{icon="material-symbols:info-outline"}
**Enabled by Default**
Collaborative Editing is automatically enabled when WebSockets are active. For detailed configuration options and environment variables, please refer to the [Collaborative Editing Configuration](/configuration/realtime#collaborative-editing) documentation.
::

## Verification

To verify that collaborative editing is working correctly:

1. **Verify WebSockets**: Ensure your Directus instance has WebSockets enabled (`WEBSOCKETS_ENABLED=true`).
2. **Verify Project Settings**: Ensure your Directus instance has Collaborative Editing enabled in Project Settings.

> 3. **Test Collaboration**: Open any collection item and look for the collaboration indicators (avatar stack in the header).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Test Collaboration**: Open any collection item and look for the collaboration indicators (avatars are shown in the header).
```
